---
Title: Global Skills
Source: https://kb.lightcast.io/en/articles/7170217-global-skills
Content:
Global Skills | Lightcast Knowledge Base
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Skip to main content
Search for articles...
All Collections
Using Global Analyst
Global Demand Data
Global Skills
Global Skills
 
Updated over a month ago
Skills are a foundational translation layer that enables a standardized way to compare and evaluate job requirements across different languages and cultures, allowing for accurate talent matching and identification of skill gaps.
 
In order to accurately analyze global job postings, it's important to understand language to avoid misinterpretations or missing important details, and to address language barriers that can impact analysis.
Skills are a great way of understanding global labor;
Granularity: Skills provide a granular level of detail
Comparability: Skills are a universal language
Future-proofing: Skills provide a future-oriented perspective
The use of skills to analyze labor demand data supports granular and contextual data-driven decision-making.
 
Learn more about our skills at 
https://lightcast.io/open-skills
 
Lightcast does not machine translates data in order to tag skills through an English classifier. All our skills extraction happens in native language.
Skills are tagged by looking at the full context of the posting, this allows us to accurately determine if a posting is asking for a Python programmer at a startup versus a Python animal caretaker at a zoo. This context is all done in the language of the document and 
not
 through a machine translation to English for maximum accuracy. 
 
Currently, Lightcast global skills are tagged in the following languages;
 
Supported Languages
English
Spanish
Chinese
Portuguese
French
German
Japanese
Korean
Italian
Polish
Dutch
Romanian
Swedish
Czech
Danish
 
Example
Body
Wij zoeken een ervaren dierentuin verzorger voor het verzorgen van pythons, inclusief voeding, monitoring en onderhoud. Sterke communicatie- en teamwork vaardigheden zijn vereist.”
 
Context
Body is looking for someone working in a zoo, to nurture animal welfare with a specific focus on python snakes.
 
Tag
skill: ‘ESD657F429AE3CDCD027’
skill_name: Avian And Exotic Animal Care
Related Articles
Global Postings Data Overview
Lightcast Occupation Taxonomy (LOT)
Lightcast Skills Taxonomy
Skills
Global Data Release Notes
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
