---
Title: Global Worker Profile overview
Source: https://kb.lightcast.io/en/articles/7170203-global-worker-profile-overview
Content:
Global Worker Profile overview | Lightcast Knowledge Base
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Skip to main content
Search for articles...
All Collections
Using Global Analyst
Global Worker Profiles
Global Worker Profile overview
Global Worker Profile overview
 
Updated over 2 months ago
Relevant, cleaned and enriched global work-related social profiles
Lightcast Global's social profile data comes from a variety of geographic regions. While the number of countries available vary depending on the product, Lightcast overall has profile data on over 164 countries.
 
Workers use various terminologies and descriptions to describe themselves. To address this, we employ our own cleaning, mapping, and taxonomies to standardize our social profile data across different countries and markets. This ensures that the data is uniform and coherent across various regions.
Profile data is self-reported data. This means anyone can put down whatever they think represents them in the best light possible for future employers. This explains an oversized sample for places like San Francisco or titles such as Chief Executive Officer.
Global worker profiles are categorized using the 
Global Occupations.
 
The social profile data is cleaned, deduplicated, and enriched with our taxonomies before being used. We update the data regularly by collecting, enriching, and deduplicating from premier sources like LinkedIn or Stackoverflow. Social profile data can offer insights into the global talent pool through our software tools:
 
From Global Talent Analyst with Profile Analytics:
 
And from the Lightcast 
Global Profile API
.
 
Related Articles
Global Occupation Taxonomy
Global Data 101
Global Postings Data Overview
New Interface & Global Experience for Talent & Staffing Users in 2024
Global Data Release Notes
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
