---
Title: Global LMI overview
Source: https://kb.lightcast.io/en/articles/7199115-global-lmi-overview
Content:
Global LMI overview | Lightcast Knowledge Base
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Skip to main content
Search for articles...
All Collections
Using Global Analyst
Global LMI
Global LMI overview
Global LMI overview
 
Updated over 2 years ago
Governmental data to help guide analysis
Lightcast Labor Market Information (LMI) refers to governmental data collected and collated by Lightcast. This data is presented to help customers make informed plans, choices, and analysis founded on governmentally sourced data points.
 
Global Labor Market Intelligence data is generally speaking the number of workers for a given global market per global occupation. For a lot of countries, very high level demographic data is also available. 
 
Once the data is collected, it is often classified according to a standard classification system such as the 
International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO)
. This allows for easier comparison and analysis of the data across different countries and regions.
 
Using LMI can be beneficial in many ways. Businesses can use LMI to inform their investment decisions and workforce planning, while job seekers can use it to identify job opportunities and plan their career paths. Governments and policymakers can use LMI to inform their workforce development policies and programs.
 
LMI is a vital source of information for understanding the labor market and making informed decisions. Governments globally collect and present LMI from various sources, and Lightcast makes it easy to understand the data.
 
Global Labor Market Information Supported Countries
 
AT-Austria Methodology
AU-Australia Methodology
BE-Belgium Methodology
BG-Bulgaria Methodology
BR-Brazil Methodology
CA - Canada Methodology
CH-Switzerland Methodology
CR-Costa Rica Methodology
CY-Cyprus Methodology
CZ-Czechia (Czech Republic) Methodology
DE-Germany Methodology
DK-Denmark Methodology
EE-Estonia Methodology
EL-Greece Methodology
ES-Spain Methodology
FI-Finland Methodology
FR-France Methodology
GB - Great Britain Methodology
HK-Hong Kong Methodology
HR-Croatia Methodology
HU-Hungary Methodology
IE-Ireland Methodology
IL-Israel Methodology
IN-India Methodology
IS-Iceland Methodology
LT-Lithuania Methodology
LU-Luxembourg Methodology
LV-Latvia Methodology
MT-Malta Methodology
MX-Mexico Methodology
NL-The Netherlands Methodology
NO-Norway Methodology
PH-Philippines Methodology
PL-Poland Methodology
RO-Romania Methodology
SE-Sweden Methodology
SG-Singapore Methodology
SI-Slovenia Methodology
SK-Slovakia Methodology
TR-Turkey Methodology
US - United States Methodology
Related Articles
Lightcast Data: Basic Overview
Global Data 101
Global Postings Data Overview
DE-Germany Methodology
Global Data Release Notes
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
