---
Title: Industry and Occupation Diversity Methodology
Source: https://kb.lightcast.io/en/articles/6957722-industry-and-occupation-diversity-methodology
Content:
Industry and Occupation Diversity Methodology | Lightcast Knowledge Base
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Skip to main content
Search for articles...
All Collections
Data Methodology
Industry and Occupation Diversity Methodology
Industry and Occupation Diversity Methodology
 
Updated over a year ago
Industry Data
Quarterly Workforce Indicators (
QWI
) data is used to create demographic percentage breakouts that we can apply to Lightcast industry job counts (based on 
QCEW
). QWI gives percentage breakouts by age/sex or race/ethnicity for 4-digit industries, but the breakouts are partially suppressed:
 
Lightcast uses 
American Community Survey
 data to unsuppress non-disclosed values in QWI:
 
The unsuppressed QWI data is then converted to demographic percentages that show what percent of the jobs in each industry should be allocated to which demographic. This percentage breakout is further enhanced by data from ACS.The result is a percentage breakout for a detailed set of NAICS codes particular to ACS but not as detailed as Lightcast. Where ACS' NAICS codes are not as detailed as Lightcast's, we apply the same QWI/ACS-based breakout to all Lightcast NAICS within the most detailed QWI/ACS category. The final product is Lightcast 6-digit industry job counts, broken out by age, gender, and race/ethnicity:
 
Because it is based on Lightcast final industry job counts and percentage breakouts, summing demographic-specific job counts will result in totals that match Lightcast final industry job counts.
 
Occupation Data
Lightcast's occupation demographics data is created using the end result of the above process. Final industry demographic job counts are combined with an ACS-enhanced staffing pattern which includes demographic detail:
 
The result is occupation job counts with demographic detail, again by age, gender, or race/ethnicity:
 
Related Articles
Lightcast Data: Basic Overview
US Data Release Notes
Census Tract Methodology
American Community Survey
Quarterly Workforce Indicators (QWI)
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
