---
Title: JPA Timeframe
Source: https://kb.lightcast.io/en/articles/10347556-jpa-timeframe
Content:
JPA Timeframe | Lightcast Knowledge Base
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Skip to main content
Search for articles...
Table of contents
Standard Timeframe
Preset Timeframe
Left Panel edits
All Collections
Using Analyst and Developer
Filters & Inputs
JPA Filters
JPA Timeframe
JPA Timeframe
The timeframe filter across job postings reports
 
Updated over 4 months ago
Table of contents
Standard Timeframe
Preset Timeframe
Left Panel edits
Job Postings reports provide two ways to limit the timeframe of job postings.;
 
Standard
Preset
 
Standard Timeframe
In the 
Standard
 timeframe selection, a user can select one or a range of months to include in the report. This timeframe will serve as the base set of data that is included - the result will be an aggregate total of postings for the entire selected timeframe. 
 
The number of available months depends on the selected 
nation
 and particular report, with posting data available as far back as 2010 in the United States. 
 
Data in 
Standard 
reflects full months; as such, the latest available date is the latest 
full-month.
 
Data typically becomes available by approximately the 5th of the following month or sooner.
 
Preset Timeframe
The 
Preset
 timeframe enables review of data in relation to the current time, rather than a set period of time. 
 
This option provides two advantages:
 
View recent data:
 With preset timeframes, users can view postings from the most recent 7 or 14 days, for example, rather than relying on monthly views. 
Saved reports and report alerts: 
If you are interested in monitoring a similar query on a regular basis, the 
preset
 timeframe simplifies the ability to create a report to regularly open and view. For example, a report for "recent posting activity within an industry" may be defined as 
Last 90 days
; anytime this saved report is opened, the data will update based on the most recent 90 days. 
 
 
 
 
Left Panel edits
 
The timeframe can be updated from the left panel after running a report. The initial choice of "Standard" or "Preset" determines what is available on the left side. To change from Preset to Standard (or vice versa), select "Start Over".
 
 
 
 
 
Related Articles
How to Change the Datarun
Timeframe
Nested Posting Table
Regions filter
Hot and Cold Skills by Job Postings
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
