---
Title: Labor Force Participation Rate
Source: https://kb.lightcast.io/en/articles/6957616-labor-force-participation-rate
Content:
Labor Force Participation Rate | Lightcast Knowledge Base
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Skip to main content
Search for articles...
Table of contents
Overview
Sources and Methodology Details
All Collections
Data Methodology
Labor Market Information (LMI)
Labor Force Participation Rate
Labor Force Participation Rate
 
Updated over 2 years ago
Table of contents
Overview
Sources and Methodology Details
Overview
Labor Force Participation Rate (LFPR) is an economic indicator that describes how much of the population is active in the economy, either working or searching for work. The rate is calculated as:
 
LFPR = 
(
Employed Population
 + 
Unemployed Population
) / (
Total Civilian Non-Institutionalized Population
).
 
The population denominator is not usually the entire resident population, because the goal is to compare the total number of people active in the labor force to the number of people we would reasonably expect to be in the base labor pool.
 
Traditional (BLS/DOL) definition
: civilian non-institutionalized population aged 16+
 
Sources and Methodology Details
Lightcast sources the employment and unemployment figures from the BLS’ Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS) program. We do not model this data, but pull it directly from the source and use their 
definitions
, including their definition of the labor force as “civilian noninstitutional population ages 16 and older classified as either employed or unemployed”.
 
The population denominator comes from Lightcast’s proprietary population demographics dataset, which we primarily source from the Census Bureau’s Population and Housing Estimates program (POPEST). The POPEST data represents the entire resident population, which is historically why Lightcast used that definition for the LFPR denominator. To extract the civilian non-institutionalized population from the resident population, Lightcast multiplies the resident population by ratios created from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS) 5-year tabulations.
 
There are low-quality data problems in the modeled LAUS data that can cause LFPR to meet or exceed 100%. Loving County, TX is a great example: the entire population of that county is approximately 200 (POPEST), so having a resident labor force that is approximately 300 (LAUS) is clearly erroneous.
Related Articles
US - United States Methodology
Characteristics of the Insured Unemployed (CIU)
Job
Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS)
Unemployed
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
