---
Title: Lightcast Nations and Dataruns
Source: https://kb.lightcast.io/en/articles/10344528-lightcast-nations-and-dataruns
Content:
Lightcast Nations and Dataruns | Lightcast Knowledge Base
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name "Lato".
      This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.
Skip to main content
Search for articles...
All Collections
Using Analyst and Developer
Getting Started
Lightcast Nations and Dataruns
Lightcast Nations and Dataruns
Lightcast data across the globe
 
Updated over 3 weeks ago
Lightcast data comes from a mix of sources: 
government labor market information,
 
job postings
, 
profiles
, and proprietary models. 
 
Depending on customer subscription access, users can choose between four "nation" options:
United States
United Kingdom
Canada
Global
 
 
Due to the reliance on government data, the available data is not entirely consistent across these nations. For example, demographic information is collected and available more often in the United States than other regions. 
Additionally, these datasets are built to provide knowledge and insight that aligns with the local regions. The 
US
, 
UK
, and 
Canada
 use different occupation taxonomies, for example, and Lightcast has developed a single international 
Lightcast Occupation Taxonomy
. 
 
The 'national datasets' provide data in the locally recognized taxonomies (occupation, industry, education classifications, etc) as well as the Lightcast Occupation Taxonomy. 
The 'Global' dataset uses consistent taxonomies across the nations to enable internationally comparative data.
 
For each dataset, Lightcast reruns government data 
2-4 times per year
 in what we call 'dataruns'. Users are able to access the most recent datarun as well as the previous two dataruns in the platform at all times.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Articles
How to Change the Datarun
Lightcast Occupation Taxonomy (LOT)
Analyst Platform Changelog
Lightcast Administrative Areas
Global Data Release Notes
Did this answer your question?
😞
😐
😃
